Create a example of gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed (#1101)
chaos-polymtl/lethe: doc/source/examples/unresolved-cfd-dem/gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed/gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed.rst

==================================
Gas-Solid Spouted Cylinder Bed
==================================

> It is strongly recommended to visit `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_  and `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_ for a detailed description on the concepts and physical meanings of the DEM and CFD-DEM parameters.

Reviewer: I feel this is already said multiple times. I don't think this should be the first like of the example, it's kinda off putting. I would instead maybe put that where you start to explain the parameters (or just remove it alltogether)

Author: Ok, I'll put them before the explanation of each parameters

> This example is an extension of the `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-bed.html>`_ for a cylindrical geometry. The boundary condition and some parameters have been changed accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is an extension of the `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-bed.html>`_ for a cylindrical geometry. 
```

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

- Solvers: ``lethe-particles`` and ``lethe-fluid-particles``
- Three-dimensional problem

> - Displays the selection of models and physical properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not really a feature per say, it's evident.

- Simulates a solid-gas cylinder-shaped spouted bed

---------------------------
Files Used in This Example
---------------------------

Both files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/unresolved-cfd-dem/gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed``).

- Parameter file for CFD-DEM simulation of the spouted bed: ``gas-solid-spouted-bed.prm``
- Parameter file for particle generation and packing: ``dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm``

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

> This example simulates the spouting of spherical particles in air in a cylindrical geometry. As noted in the example of `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-beml>`_, we use ``lethe-particles`` to fill the bed with particles, and ``lethe-fluid-particles`` as a solver of CFD-DEM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example simulates the spouting of spherical particles in air in a cylinder. As noted in the example of `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-beml>`_, we use ``lethe-particles`` to fill the bed with particles, and ``lethe-fluid-particles`` as a solver of CFD-DEM.
```

What is a cylindrical geometry? It's a cylinder, or a cylindrical spouted-bed.

-------------------
DEM Parameter File
-------------------

> Here, we will focus only on the parts that have been modified.

Reviewer: That have been modified compared to the pseudo-2D spouted bed? If that is the case, please be more explicit

Author: Yes, that's what I meant. I mentioned this in line 6, the beginning of this document. 
would you say I should mention it again here?

Mesh
~~~~~

> In this example, we are simulating a cylinder shaped spouted bed. We introduce the flow through a short channel that is connected to the inlet of the bed. A schematic image is shown below;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we are simulating a cylinder shaped spouted bed. We introduce the flow through a cylinder of smaller radius channel that  constitutes the inlet of the bed. A schematic image is shown below;
```

.. image:: images/geometry.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: geometry
    :height: 10cm 

The geometry of the bed was created using `Pointiwise <../../../tools/pointwise/pointowise.html>`_, and the overview of created mesh is also shown below;

.. image:: images/mesh.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: mesh_ver
    :height: 10cm

> In Unresolved-CFD-DEM, Cells need to have a enough volume to contain particles in it. Basically the size of cells should be least three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation. So this can be expressed as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Unresolved CFD-DEM, the averaging volume used to calculate the void fraction needs to be large enough to contain several particles (>10). Since the averaging volume used in the quadrature-centred method is generally related to the cell volume, this introduces a limitation on the cell size. In general, the averaging volume, which in this case corresponds to the cell size, should be approximatively three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation. So this can be expressed as follows:
```

  \dfrac{d_p}{\Delta x} \leq 3

> where :math:`d_p` is the particle diameter, and :math:`\Delta x` is the characteristic size of the cell. In this example, we use particles with diameters of 5 mm which means that we need at least 15 mm for cell size. Also, we need to apply a relatively small mesh to the short channel below. Thus, we set the size of the central cylinder to 15 mm, and made other grid coarser. We show the parameter related to the mesh below.

Reviewer: I had written a comment regarding this previously. What you changed here is also not true. The averaging volume does not need to be related to the cells at all...

> where :math:`d_p` is the particle diameter, and :math:`\Delta x` is the characteristic size of the cell. In this example, we use particles with diameters of 5 mm which means that we need at least 15 mm for cell size. Also, we need to apply a relatively small mesh to the short channel below. Thus, we set the size of the central cylinder to 15mm, and made other grid coarser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`d_p` is the particle diameter, and :math:`\Delta x` is the characteristic size of the cell. In this example, we use particles with diameters of 5 mm which means that we need at least 15 mm for cell size. Also, we need to apply a relatively small mesh to the short channel below. Thus, we set the size of the central cylinder to 15mm, and made other grid coarser.
```
Use another symbol for Delta_x. It is not the cell size. You could use something larger. In fact, this is something we should revisit to ensure that when we use the cell size to calculate the void fraction using the cell size to guide the QCM we use the "Biggest possible size"

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The physical properties section is almost the same as the previous spouted bed example. Here, parameters for the direction of gravity, the diameter, density, and the number of particles are modified. In this simulation, we use 100,000 particles with a 5 mm diameter. 

.. code-block:: text

    subsection lagrangian physical properties

>       set gx                       = 0
>       set gy                       = 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      set gz                       = -9.81
      set number of particle types = 1
      subsection particle type 0
        set size distribution type            = uniform
        set diameter                          = 0.0025
        set number                            = 100000
        set density particles                 = 500
        set young modulus particles           = 10000000
        set poisson ratio particles           = 0.25
        set restitution coefficient particles = 0.97
        set friction coefficient particles    = 0.4
        set rolling friction particles        = 0.3
      end
      set young modulus wall           = 10000000
      set poisson ratio wall           = 0.25
      set restitution coefficient wall = 0.33
      set friction coefficient wall    = 0.2
      set rolling friction wall        = 0.3
    end

Insertion Info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``insertion info`` subsection manages the insertion of particles. This section has to be modified because of the change in particle number and use of a different geometry. The insertion box parameter was set as follows so that it could fit in the cylinder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``insertion info`` subsection manages the insertion of particles. The insertion box parameter is set so that it can fit in the cylinder.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection insertion info
      set insertion method                               = volume
      set inserted number of particles at each time step = 100000
      set insertion frequency                            = 2000
      set insertion box minimum x                        = -0.075
      set insertion box minimum y                        = -0.075
      set insertion box minimum z                        = 0
      set insertion box maximum x                        = 0.075
      set insertion box maximum y                        = 0.075
      set insertion box maximum z                        = 0.07
      set insertion distance threshold                   = 1.05
      set insertion maximum offset                       = 0.3
      set insertion prn seed                             = 19
    end

Floating Walls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When we pack the cylinder with particles, we need to keep them inside and prevent them from falling through the small inlet channel. To do so, we place the stopper at the bottom of the cylinder, which is :math:`z = 0` plain, as in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we pack the cylinder with particles, we need to keep them inside and prevent them from falling through the small inlet channel. To do so, we place a floating wall at the bottom of the cylinder, which is :math:`z = 0` plain, as in:
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection floating walls
      set number of floating walls = 1
      subsection wall 0
        subsection point on wall
          set x = 0
          set y = 0
          set z = 0
        end
        subsection normal vector
          set nx = 0
          set ny = 0
          set nz = 1
        end
        set start time = 0

>         set end time   = 50

Reviewer: Why a end time of 50? Ideally the end time should be very large no? to ensure itnever disappears

Author: Exactly. I changed into 999 s

      end
    end

---------------------------
Running the DEM Simulation
---------------------------
Launching the simulation is as simple as specifying the executable name and the parameter file. Assuming that the ``lethe-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched on a single processor by typing:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm

or in parallel (where 8 represents the number of processors)

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm

> After the particles have been packed inside the square bed, we can move on to the fluid-particles simulation.

Reviewer: Can you give an estimation of the loading time

-----------------------
CFD-DEM Parameter File
-----------------------

> The CFD simulation is to be carried out using the packed bed simulated in the previous step. Here we will focus on the modified section as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CFD-DEM simulation is carried out using the packed bed previously generated. Here we will focus on the modified section as well.
```

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The simulation is run for 5 s with a time step of 0.001 s. The time scheme and setting for output is shown as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulation is run for 5s with a time step of 0.001s. The time scheme and setting for output is shown as follows.
```

Ideally you would use the \SI{}{} latex module, but I am not sure if this is supported in RST.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control

>       set method               = bdf1

Reviewer: There is not much point in using BDF1 when BDF2 could be used, I would suggest switching to BDF2...

      set number mesh adapt    = 0

>       set output name          = result_

Reviewer: This is a non-standard output name and the _ is not necessary, you could remove that parameter.

      set output frequency     = 50

>       set startup time scaling = 0.6

Reviewer: Default value, I would remove the parameter.

      set time end             = 5
      set time step            = 0.001

>       set subdivision          = 1

Reviewer: This is the default value, I would remove the parameter.

>       set log precision        = 10

Reviewer: Do you really need to change the log precision to be 10? I would remove that parameter.

>       set output path          = ./output/

Reviewer: This is the default value of the parameter, you can remove the parameter.

    end

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Regarding the boundary conditions, we apply slip boundary condition to the wall, a uniform Dirichlet boundary condition at the bottom of the small channel, and free-stream to the top of the cylinder. The following schematic figure describes the ID of each boundary and the positon of the floating wall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regarding the boundary conditions, we apply slip boundary condition to the wall, a uniform Dirichlet boundary condition at the bottom of the small channel, and outlet to the top of the cylinder. The following schematic figure describes the ID of each boundary and the positon of the floating wall.
```

.. image:: images/ID.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: ID
    :height: 10cm

> we set the inlet velocity to 2.5 m/s, and we do not impose the background velocity on the bottom of the cylinder as in the previous spouted bed example. The value of beta on the outlet boundary was set to 100, which is relatively high, to stabilize the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we set the inlet velocity to 2.5 m/s, and we do not impose the background velocity on the bottom of the cylinder as in the previous spouted bed example. The value of beta on the outlet boundary was set to 100, which is relatively high, to stabilize the simulation and prevent backflow.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection boundary conditions
    set time dependent = false
    set number         = 5

    subsection bc 0 #outlet
      set id   = 3
      set type = outlet
      set beta = 100
    end

    subsection bc 1 #inlet
      set id   = 2
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        set Function expression = 2.5
      end
    end

    subsection bc 2 #bed_wall
      set id = 6
      set type = slip

>     end

Reviewer: What is bed wall?

Author: I wanted to express like this is the wall of main geometry, not small channel. 
Maybe I need to change this into just "wall"

    subsection bc 3 #channel_wall
      set id = 5
      set type = slip
    end
    
    subsection bc 4   #bed_wall_bottom
      set id   = 4
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        set Function expression = 0.5
      end
    end
  end

> The additional sections for the CFD-DEM simulations are the void fraction subsection and the CFD-DEM subsection. These subsections are described in detail in the `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_.

Reviewer: Have you tried running the simulation in Q2-Q2? 
It would be really interesting. Because here you are using slip on the walls which we know is not a true boundary condition. It would be interesting to try to run it using Q2 or even possibly Q3. It would make the example more interesting.

------------------------------
Running the CFD-DEM Simulation
------------------------------

The simulation is run using the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` application. Assuming that the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched as per the following command:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  lethe-fluid-particles gas-solid-spouted-bed.prm

---------
Results
---------

We briefly discuss the results that can be obtained from this example here.

Total Pressure Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We show the data about pressure drop, which is a very important value for the fluidization phenomena.

This graph illustrates the variation of pressure drop from 1s to 5s. We can see the pressure oscillation which is caused by the bubbly state.

.. image:: images/pressure_drop.png
    :alt: Pressure drop as a function of time
    :align: center
    :name: press_t

The graph below shows pressure drop as a function of height, depending on time. Here we see the oscillation of the pressure drop as well.

.. image:: images/pressure_height.gif
    :alt: Pressure drop as a function of height
    :align: center

>     :name: press_h

Reviewer: I would remove this and replace it with a static graph. Gifs are heavy files to store on the repository and this does not add much information to be honest. It would be better to have a pressure drop vs time graph than this one.

Reviewer: Well you already have a pressure drop vs time, so that's already great. I would just remove this figure then.

> visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visualization
```

==================================
Gas-Solid Spouted Cylinder Bed
==================================

> It is strongly recommended to visit `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_  and `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_ for more detailed information on the concepts and physical meaning of the parameters ind DEM and CFD-DEM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is strongly recommended to visit `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_  and `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_ for a detailed description on the concepts and physical meanings of the DEM and CFD-DEM parameters.
```

> This is a modification of the example of `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-bed.html>`_ . In this example, we deal with the geometry of a Cylinder. The boundary condition and some parameter have been changed accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example is an extension of the `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-bed.html>`_ for a cylindrical geometry. The boundary condition and some parameters have been changed accordingly.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

- Solvers: ``lethe-particles`` and ``lethe-fluid-particles``
- Three-dimensional problem
- Displays the selection of models and physical properties

> - Simulates a solid-gas cylinder shaped spouted bed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Simulates a solid-gas cylinder-shaped spouted bed
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---------------------------
Files Used in This Example
---------------------------

Both files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/unresolved-cfd-dem/gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed``).

> - Parameter file for CFD-DEM simulation of the spouted bed: ``gas-solid-spouted-bed.prm``

Reviewer 2: I would change the name of the prm file to make it different from the previous example

> - Parameter file for particle generation and packing: ``dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm``

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above

Reviewer: Also the file should the name generator in the name for it to be compatible with the CI for CFD-DEM examples.

Author: Sorry, I don't get it.
I changed into "dem-packing-in-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm" and "gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm". Do they work?

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

> This example simulates the spouting of spherical particles in air. As noted in the example of `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-beml>`_, we use ``lethe-particles``to fill the bed with particles, and ``lethe-fluid-particles`` as a solver of CFD-DEM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example simulates the spouting of spherical particles in air in a cylindrical geometry. As noted in the example of `Gas-Solid Spouted Bed <../gas-solid-spouted-bed/gas-solid-spouted-beml>`_, we use ``lethe-particles`` to fill the bed with particles, and ``lethe-fluid-particles`` as a solver of CFD-DEM.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-------------------
DEM Parameter File
-------------------

> Here, we will focus only on the parts that have been modified.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, we will focus only on the parts that have been modified.
```

Reviewer 2: It's missing an "in relation to the spouted bed example"

Mesh
~~~~~

> In this example, we are simulating a cylinder shaped spouted bed. As noted in another example, we introduce the flow through a short channel that is connected to the inlet of the bed. A schematic image is shown below;

Reviewer 2: cylinder-shaped

.. image:: images/geometry.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: geometry
    :height: 10cm 

The geometry of the bed was created using `Pointiwise <../../../tools/pointwise/pointowise.html>`_, and the overview of created mesh is also shown below;

.. image:: images/mesh.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: mesh_ver
    :height: 10cm

> In Unresolved-CFD-DEM, Cells need to have a enough volume to contain particles in it. Basically the size of cells should be least three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation. So this can be expressed as follows.

Reviewer 2: The cells should be able to contain several particles because of the volume-average approach only makes sense if the average is representative of the volume around it, not because it is not numerically stable. I would rephrase it. Also, I would cite the reference to this information.

> In Unresolved-CFD-DEM, Cells need to have a enough volume to contain particles in it. Basically the size of cells should be least three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation. So this can be expressed as follows.

Reviewer: This is not exactly true. In the QCM method, the volume-averaging is carried out using a sphere which size can be defined using the cell-size. So the averaging volume can be different from the cell and should be considered to be a distinct notion.

> In Unresolved-CFD-DEM, Cells need to have a enough volume to contain particles in it. Basically the size of cells should be least three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation. So this can be expressed as follows.

Reviewer 2: Uhum! My comment is not complete but I have explained it in person.

.. math:: 
  \dfrac{d_p}{\Delta x} \leq 3

> where :math:`d_p` is the diameter of the particles, and :math:`\Delta x` is the characteristic size of the cell. In this example, we are dealing with the particles 5mm in diameter, which means we need at least 15mm for the size of cells. Also, we need to apply relatively small meshes to the short channel below. So We set the size of the central cylinder to 15mm, and made other grid coarser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where :math:`d_p` is the diameter of the particles, and :math:`\Delta x` is the characteristic size of the cells. In this example, we are dealing with 5 mm diameter particles, which means we need cells to have a minimum characteristic length of 15 mm. Also, we need to apply relatively fine meshes to the short channel below. So we set the size of the central cylinder to 15 mm and applied a finer mesh to it.
```

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The physical properties section is almost the same as the another example. Here, parameter for the direction of gravity, the diameter and density of particles, and the number of particles are modified. We insert 100,000 particles with a 5mm diameter in this simulation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The physical properties section is almost the same as the previous spouted bed example. Here, parameters for the direction of gravity, the diameter, density, and the number of particles are modified. In this simulation, we use 100,000 particles with a 5 mm diameter. 
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection lagrangian physical properties
      set gx                       = 0
      set gy                       = 0
      set gz                       = -9.81
      set number of particle types = 1
      subsection particle type 0
        set size distribution type            = uniform
        set diameter                          = 0.0025
        set number                            = 100000
        set density particles                 = 500
        set young modulus particles           = 10000000
        set poisson ratio particles           = 0.25
        set restitution coefficient particles = 0.97
        set friction coefficient particles    = 0.4
        set rolling friction particles        = 0.3
      end
      set young modulus wall           = 10000000
      set poisson ratio wall           = 0.25
      set restitution coefficient wall = 0.33
      set friction coefficient wall    = 0.2
      set rolling friction wall        = 0.3
    end

Insertion Info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``insertion info`` subsection manages the insertion of particles. It should be modified because we changed the number of particles, and use different geometry. The parameter of insertion box was set as follows so that it could fit in the cylinder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``insertion info`` subsection manages the insertion of particles. This section has to be modified because of the change in particle number and use of a different geometry. The insertion box parameter was set as follows so that it could fit in the cylinder.
```

Reviewer 2: "and the use of a different geometry"

Reviewer 2: "as follows, so that"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection insertion info
      set insertion method                               = volume
      set inserted number of particles at each time step = 100000
      set insertion frequency                            = 2000
      set insertion box minimum x                        = -0.075
      set insertion box minimum y                        = -0.075
      set insertion box minimum z                        = 0
      set insertion box maximum x                        = 0.075
      set insertion box maximum y                        = 0.075

>       set insertion box maximum z                        = 0.07

Reviewer 3: The insertion box is now being define with the parameter "set insertion box points coordinates". 

Please, make sure that the previous example get updated.

      set insertion distance threshold                   = 1.05
      set insertion maximum offset                       = 0.3
      set insertion prn seed                             = 19
    end

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Floating Walls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When we pack the cylinder with particles, we need to keep them inside, and prevent them from falling through the small channel for inlet flow. We place the stopper at the bottom of the cylinder, which is z=0 plain. This is shown in:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we pack the cylinder with particles, we need to keep them inside and prevent them from falling through the small inlet channel. To do so, we place the stopper at the bottom of the cylinder, which is :math:`z = 0` plain, as in:
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection floating walls
      set number of floating walls = 1
      subsection wall 0
        subsection point on wall
          set x = 0
          set y = 0
          set z = 0
        end
        subsection normal vector
          set nx = 0
          set ny = 0
          set nz = 1
        end
        set start time = 0
        set end time   = 50
      end
    end

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---------------------------
Running the DEM Simulation
---------------------------
Launching the simulation is as simple as specifying the executable name and the parameter file. Assuming that the ``lethe-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched on a single processor by typing:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm

or in parallel (where 8 represents the number of processors)

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-bed.prm

After the particles have been packed inside the square bed, we can move on to the fluid-particles simulation.

-----------------------
CFD-DEM Parameter File
-----------------------

> The CFD simulation is to be carried out using the packed bed simulated in the previous step. Here We will focus on the modified section as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CFD simulation is to be carried out using the packed bed simulated in the previous step. Here we will focus on the modified section as well.
```

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simulation is run for 5 s with a time step of 0.001 s. The time scheme and setting for output is shown as follows.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
      set method               = bdf1
      set number mesh adapt    = 0
      set output name          = result_
      set output frequency     = 50
      set startup time scaling = 0.6
      set time end             = 5
      set time step            = 0.001
      set subdivision          = 1
      set log precision        = 10
      set output path          = ./output/
    end

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Regarding the boundary conditions we apply slip boundary condition to the wall, inlet boundary to the bottom of the channel, and outlet boundary conditon to the top of the cylinder. The following shematic describes the ID of each boundary, and positon of floating wall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regarding the boundary conditions, we apply slip boundary condition to the wall, a uniform Dirichlet boundary condition at the bottom of the small channel, and free-stream to the top of the cylinder. The following schematic figure describes the ID of each boundary and the positon of the floating wall.
```

.. image:: images/ID.png
    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: ID
    :height: 10cm

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> we set the inlet velosity to 2.5 m/s, and don't impose the background velocity on the bottom of the cylinder like the another example. The value of beta on the outlet boundary was set to 100, which is relatively high, in order to get stable simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we set the inlet velocity to 2.5 m/s, and we do not impose the background velocity on the bottom of the cylinder as in the previous spouted bed example. The value of beta on the outlet boundary was set to 100, which is relatively high, to stabilize the simulation.
```

Reviewer 2: Why? I would maybe provide a brief explanation here or refer the reader to the parameter explanation at the parameter section.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection boundary conditions
    set time dependent = false
    set number         = 5

    subsection bc 0 #outlet
      set id   = 3
      set type = outlet
      set beta = 100
    end

    subsection bc 1 #inlet
      set id   = 2
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        set Function expression = 2.5
      end
    end

    subsection bc 2 #bed_wall
      set id = 6
      set type = slip
    end

    subsection bc 3 #channel_wall
      set id = 5
      set type = slip
    end
    
    subsection bc 4   #bed_wall_bottom
      set id   = 4
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        set Function expression = 0.5
      end
    end
  end

> The additional sections for the CFD-DEM simulations are the void fraction subsection and the CFD-DEM subsection. These subsections are described in detail in the `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_ .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The additional sections for the CFD-DEM simulations are the void fraction subsection and the CFD-DEM subsection. These subsections are described in detail in the `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_.
```

------------------------------
Running the CFD-DEM Simulation
------------------------------

The simulation is run using the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` application. Assuming that the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched as per the following command:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   lethe-fluid-particles gas-solid-spouted-bed.prm

Reviewer 3: I would put the command with mpirun

Reviewer 2: oui!

Reviewer: and the estimation of the run time.

---------
Results
---------

We briefly discuss the results that can be obtained from this example here.

> Tolal Pressure Drop

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Total Pressure Drop
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Here, We show the data about pressure drop, which is very impotant value for fluidization phenomena.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We show the data about pressure drop, which is a very important value for the fluidization phenomena.
```

> This graph illustrates the variation of pressure drop from 1s to 5s. We can see the pressure ossillation which is caused by bubbly state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This graph illustrates the variation of pressure drop from 1s to 5s. We can see the pressure oscillation which is caused by the bubbly state.
```

.. image:: images/pressure_drop.png
    :alt: Pressure drop as a function of time
    :align: center
    :name: press_t

> The graph below shows pressure drop as a function of height, depending on time. Here you can see the ossillation of the pressure drop as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The graph below shows pressure drop as a function of height, depending on time. Here we see the oscillation of the pressure drop as well.
```

.. image:: images/pressure_height.gif
    :alt: Pressure drop as a function of height
    :align: center
    :name: press_h

visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The results are shown in an animation below. You see the bubbly state flow is mixing the particles on the right side. the color of the particles represents its ID, to make it easier to see mixing. On the left side, you see the velocity profile as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results are shown in an animation below. As seen, the bubbly flow can be observed on the right side. the color of the particles represents the ID, to make it easier to see mixing. On the left side, you see the velocity profile as well.
```

    :alt: The geometry and boundary conditions
    :align: center
    :name: mesh_ver
    :height: 10cm

In unresolved CFD-DEM, the averaging volume used to calculate the void fraction needs to be large enough to contain several particles (>10). Since the averaging volume used in the quadrature-centred method is generally related to the cell volume, this introduces a limitation on the cell size. In general, the averaging volume, which in this case is controlled by the cell size, should be approximately three time larger than the diameter of the particles in order to get stable calculation.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh
      set type                                = gmsh
      set file name                           = ./mesh/cylinder-spouted-bed.msh
      set expand particle-wall contact search = true
    end

where the file name includes the path to the mesh file. Here, we activate ``expand particle-wall contact search``, which is only used in geometries with concave boundary such as cylinder and sphere. For more details, please refer to `Mesh Parameters Guide <../../../parameters/dem/mesh.html>`_.

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The physical properties section is almost the same as the previous spouted bed example. Here, parameters for the gravity, the diameter, density, and the number of particles are modified. In this simulation, we use 100,000 particles with a 5 mm diameter. 

Reviewer 3: 5 or 2.5 mm?

.. code-block:: text

    subsection lagrangian physical properties
      set gz                       = -9.81
      set number of particle types = 1
      subsection particle type 0
        set size distribution type            = uniform

>         set diameter                          = 0.0025

Reviewer 3: diameter is 5mm or 2.5 mm ?

> The physical properties section is almost the same as the previous spouted bed example. Here, parameters for the direction of gravity, the diameter, density, and the number of particles are modified. In this simulation, we use 100,000 particles with a 5 mm diameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The physical properties section is almost the same as the previous spouted bed example. Here, parameters for the gravity, the diameter, density, and the number of particles are modified. In this simulation, we use 100,000 particles with a 5 mm diameter. 
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection floating walls
      set number of floating walls = 1
      subsection wall 0
        subsection point on wall
          set x = 0
          set y = 0
          set z = 0
        end
        subsection normal vector
          set nx = 0
          set ny = 0
          set nz = 1
        end
        set start time = 0
        set end time   = 999
      end
    end

---------------------------
Running the DEM Simulation
---------------------------
Launching the simulation is as simple as specifying the executable name and the parameter file. Assuming that the ``lethe-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched on a single processor by typing:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm

or in parallel (where 8 represents the number of processors)

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles dem-packing-in-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm

.. note::

>   Running the packing should take approximately 10 hours on 8 cores.

Reviewer 3: 10 hours on 8 cores, but on which CPU?

After the particles have been packed inside the square bed, we can move on to the fluid-particles simulation.

-----------------------
CFD-DEM Parameter File
-----------------------

The CFD-DEM simulation is carried out using the packed bed previously generated. Here we will focus on the modified section as well. We recommend visiting `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/unresolved-cfd-dem.html>`_ for a detailed description.

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The simulation is run for 5 s with a time step of 0.001 s. The time scheme and setting for output is shown as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The simulation is run for 5 seconds with a time step of 0.001 seconds. The time scheme and setting for output is shown as follows.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection boundary conditions
    set time dependent = false
    set number         = 5

    subsection bc 0 #outlet
      set id   = 3
      set type = outlet
      set beta = 100
    end

    subsection bc 1 #inlet
      set id   = 2
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        set Function expression = 2.5
      end
    end

    subsection bc 2 #wall
      set id = 6
      set type = slip
    end

    subsection bc 3 #channel_wall
      set id = 5
      set type = slip
    end
    
    subsection bc 4   #bed_wall_bottom
      set id   = 4
      set type = function
      subsection u
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection v
        set Function expression = 0
      end
      subsection w
        see Function expression = 0.5
      end
    end
  end

CFD-DEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Here, we enable grad-div stabilization for local mass conservation, and take the time derivative of the void fraction into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we enable grad-div stabilization , and take the time derivative of the void fraction into account.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection cfd-dem
      set grad div                      = true
      set void fraction time derivative = true
      set drag force                    = true
      set buoyancy force                = true
      set shear force                   = true
      set pressure force                = true
      set saffman lift force            = false
      set drag model                    = rong
      set post processing               = true
      set coupling frequency            = 100
      set implicit stabilization        = true
      set grad-div length scale         = 0.26
      set vans model                    = modelA
    end

> Here, we set the `grad-div length stabilization` parameter to 0.26, which is the diameter of the geometry. This parameter should be the same length as the characteristic length of the flow. For more detail, please refer to `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/cfd-dem.html>`_. Also, the additional sections for the CFD-DEM simulations is the void fraction subsection. This subsections is described in detail in the `Void Fraction <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/void-fraction.html>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We set the `grad-div length stabilization` parameter to 0.26, which is the diameter of the geometry. This parameter should be the same length as the characteristic length of the flow. For more detail, please refer to `CFD-DEM parameters <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/cfd-dem.html>`_. Also, the additional sections for the CFD-DEM simulations is the void fraction subsection. This subsections is described in detail in the `Void Fraction <../../../parameters/unresolved-cfd-dem/void-fraction.html>`_.
```

------------------------------
Running the CFD-DEM Simulation
------------------------------

The simulation is run using the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` application. Assuming that the ``lethe-fluid-particles`` executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched as per the following command:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  lethe-fluid-particles gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm

or in parallel (where 8 represents the number of processors)

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles gas-solid-spouted-cylinder-bed.prm

Reviewer 2: Here, the simulation time could be mentioned as well

---------
Results
---------

We briefly discuss the results that can be obtained from this example here.

Total Pressure Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We show the data about pressure drop, which is a very important value for the fluidization phenomena.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion0
Here, we show the simulated pressure drop.
```

This graph illustrates the variation of pressure drop from 1s to 5s. We can see the pressure oscillation which is caused by the bubbly state.

.. image:: images/pressure_drop.png
    :alt: Pressure drop as a function of time
    :align: center
    :name: press_t

Visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The results are shown in an animation below. As seen, the bubbly flow can be observed on the right side. the color of the particles represents the ID, to make it easier to see mixing. On the left side, you see the velocity profile as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results are shown in an animation below. As seen, the bubbly flow can be observed on the right side. the color of the particles represents their IDs, allowing for the visualization of the mixing. On the left side, we show the fluid velocity field.
```

    :name: mesh_ver
    :height: 10cm

> In Unresolved-CFD-DEM, Cells need to have a enough volume to contain particles in it. Basically the size of cells should be least three time larger than the diameter of the particles so that the void fraction would not be discontinuous `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1002/cjce.23686>`_. So this can be expressed as follows.

Reviewer: Why did you change this part compared to what I had suggested? The new thing you wrote is not true...
